A Nomad expansion fleet has arrived at the edge of known space to the UEF, Cybran, and Aeon factions, appearing weeks toward the closure to the Infinite War and the beginning of the Seraphim Invasion.
Originally meant to harvest resources on a nearby planet, the Nomads detect the presence of human activity on the planet, discovering they are remnants of the Earth Empire, marking the first time Nomads have encountered their former kin.
With news of this discovery, the Nomad fleet commander sends your commander as the first ambassador to establish contact with the forces on planet, in order to begin relations.
Despite this, the UEF commander openly declares them as an intruders, and proceeds to assault them in efforts to contain them.
The Nomad commander repels the offensive and defeats the commander, returning to the fleet with technology and information captured from a UEF outpost.

Intelligence indicate the territory belonging to the Earth Empire has fallen into galactic civil war of warring factions, leading to the militarization of the Earth Empire into what is now known as the United Earth Federation.
The hostility and weapons encountered from battle suggest they are aggressive and far too powerful to confront directly, forcing the Nomads to act.
The fleet commander decides they must retreat to friendly territory to inform the Nomad leaders of the dangers of this faction and its counterparts.
However, due to the recent warp jumps distances to travel there, they are unable to return until they can reinitialize warp capabilities.

The Nomads learn from the UEF data that an alleged assault had been planned on a nearby planet, intending to target a hostile force of interest. You are sent to investigate, uncover the identity of this group, and assist if these forces can be allied with.
Upon landing, they discover that a UEF has already begun the assault, and are attacking an unidentified group that had been hidden from previous scans.
Offering your aid to the symbiont, he reveals his affliation as part of the Cybran Nation, and accepts your help, leading to the Nomad and Cybran collaborating against the UEF commander until he is defeated.
The Cybran declines further aid from the Nomads afterwards, admitting there are already difficulties to come in the future, but offers some information about a more potent threat, the Aeon.
The Cybran retreats, explaining that he will inform QAI of the Nomads arrival.

In a nearby sector, one of your ships attempting to find safe territory is shot down, and the fleet commander instructs your commander to rescue the crew before they are killed off by the Aeon forces on planet.
You arrive there and discover that much of the planet is already in ruin; the UEF forces that were in the region are being killed off, and the Aeon are obliterating them in swath of merciless destruction.
You are to fend off the Aeon menace before they are able to inflict further harm upon the ship and its crew, and scavenge from UEF remnants what you can find information regarding the Aeon war machine.
After escaping off planet, the data collected is grim: the Aeon are a zealous faction believing in the eradication of unbelievers to their mad ideology, the Way, and pose the greatest threat to the Nomads and their way of life. Worse yet, the Aeon are winning the war.
They also discover hints pertaining to a super weapon in construction by the UEF, as a last desperate effort to win the war against the Cybrans and Aeon.

Alarmed of the severity of these threats, the Nomads are closer to preparing to leave the system, but are facing a mutiny among their own ranks.
Several Nomad officers believe the Aeon cannot be defeated, and that they should attempt to join the winning side in order to avoid death. The handful of Nomad offers abandon the Nomad fleet, and make for Aeon controlled space.
The fleet commander orders you to prevent the Nomad traitors from allying with the Aeon, in fear that they might disclose the location of the Nomad homeworlds.
You are sent on planet of their destination, where you combat and execute the traitors for good. You are warned initially of strange readings appearing in nearby systems, and are advised to keep a careful eye for unusual activity on planet.
You are to ensure that every evidence of the Nomads on planet has been eradicated, including the ship that had belonged to the Nomad traitors. In the midst of battling traitor Nomads however, you witness the arrival of the Seraphim on planet, who kill one of these traitors.
After ensuring that there are no loose ends and eluding the alien threat, you will return to the fleet, where an ongoing situation is already occuring.

The Nomad intelligence has received messages broadcasted from the Cybran commander you had previously assisted, who says that Cybran HQ is willing to lend an alliance in the grave situation occuring with the arrival of the Seraphim.
You are sent to intercept the commander and his message, but upon arrival, find that the Cybran commander is battling another Cybran force.
It is revealed that the message was forged, and that the Cybran supercomputer, QAI, has set a trap for you.
You help to battle against QAI, but the Cybran commander is killed, and QAI explains that he prevented news of the Nomads arrival from the Cybran leaders, ensuring that “You will not stand in our way”.
After a series of battles and completing certain objectives in order to escape, QAI announces that it is too late to save humanity, declaring that Black Sun has already fired, and his masters are swarming the galaxy to exterminate all of humanity.

The massive energy readings continue to erupt across the galaxy, indicating that the Seraphim are overwhelming all forces left of the resisting UEF, Cybran, and Aeon factions. You must escape, now.
Despite the warp drives being reconfigured, they learn that a device in the sector is disrupting the Nomads only method of escape, and the fleet commander sends you to destroy this.
When you arrive, you face the terrible and grave threat that is the invading Seraphim, and you learn that QAI is responsible for this warp jamming device, intending to trap the Nomads and force them to reveal the Nomad homeworlds. You must fight both these aliens and QAI's defending forces surrounding the device, in order to save the Nomads.
You will battle in this desperate hour, and in vain hope, you successfully destroy the warp jamming device, and in a demonstration of Nomad perseverance, you continue until you kill the Seraphim commander on planet.
QAI will muse at your technological disadvantage to your success, but promises that once the other factions are gone, they will find them, and the Nomads will be next to annihilation.
